.TH CME_CAL_STACKING 1 "23 Nov 2007" "iGPSftk" "FORTRAN ToolKit for GNSS"
.SH NAME
cme_cal_stacking \- Calcualte common-mode error (CME) using regional stacking method.
.\ Man page for cme_cal_stacking
.\ Feedbacks are welcomed. Send them to tianyf@gmail.com
.SH SYNOPSIS
cme_cal_stacking  path
 [--opath=OUT_FILTERED_PATH]
 [--ofile=OUT_FILE]
 [--cmesites=SIT1,SIT2,SIT3,SIT4,SIT5,SIT6,...]
 [--cmesitefile=CME_SITE_FILE]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The method in Wdowinksi et al.[1997] and Nikolaidis [2002] is used.
The output CME is for the whole network. To handle effectively the spatial variations of CME (e.g. for such large networks as PBO or event global IGS), use \fBcmc_cal_optimal\fP program.
.SH OPTIONS
\fIpath\fP  The input path holding residual GNSS station position time series (in SIO NEU format).
.PP
\fIopath\fP  Optional. The output filtered time series path. If given, the filtered time series are created.
.PP
\fIofile\fP  Optional. The output CME file. If given, the CME time series is written to it; otherwise, CME is written to the standard ouput device (the terminal/screen).
.SH EXAMPLES
Use all sites under ./cmonoc.resid/ to derive CME and output to the terminal.
 \fR\fBcme_cal_stacking \.\/cmonoc.resid/
.PP
Use all sites under ./cmonoc.resid/ to derive CME and write it to a file.
 \fR\fBcme_cal_stacking ./cmonoc.resid/ --ofile=cmes.neu
.PP
Use several sites to derive CME and write it to a file, output filtered time series.
 \fR\fBcme_cal_stacking ./cmonoc.resid/ --ofile=cmes.neu --cmesites=bjfs,bjyq,jixn,lhaz,wuhn,chan,shao,kunm --opath=cmonoc.resid.flt
.PP
Use CME sites in text file to derive CME and write it to a file, output filtered time series.
 \fR\fBcme_cal_stacking ./cmonoc.resid/ --ofile=cmes.neu --cmesitefile=for.cme.sit --opath=cmonoc.resid.flt\fR
 where for.cme.sit contains:
 \fR^_non-blank-first-column lines are comments
  bjfs wuhn
  lhaz #tian
  shao
.SH "SEE ALSO"
cmc_cal_optimal, iGPSftk
