.TH iGPSftk 1 "23 Nov 2007" "iGPSftk" "FORTRAN ToolKit for GNSS"
.SH NAME
iGPSftk \- A collection of programs written in Fortran 77 language, developed by Yunfeng Tian.
.SH SYNOPSIS
NONE  \fB\fP \fI\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fB \fP
iGPSftk programs collection is based upon some libraries of GAMIT/GLOBK, NRF. The objective is to create a open source tool for analyzing continuous GNSS station coordinate time series.
.PP
Preface
.br
I found that it is often diffecult to analyze the continuous GNSS station coordinates time series as those did in those papers published in JGR-SE and BSSA. I cannot find their codes somewhere. Thus, I decided to write my own codes to test their results, and to do some improvements as well. I supposed I could obtain the same (maybe almost the same) results as the original authors did. But Roman wasn't built in one day. I feared that my programs may produce results with much large uncertainties, or even errous results. But this is a good step anyway. I hope I could do better than them.
.PP
\fIFunctions of iGPSftk\fP:
.br
+ Time series format conversion(others to SIO NEU).
.br
+ Download IGS data from FTP/HTTP servers.
.br
+ Batch run GAMIT/GLOBK.
.br
+ Batch run CATS/EST_NOISE(other programs performing colored noise analysis).
.br
+ Calculate inter-station time series correlations.
.br
+ Filtering common-mode errors/componets.
.br
+ Check archiving status of IGS data files.
.br
+ Time series operations (addative/minus/...).
.SH DISCLAIMER
I will no take any responbilities for the losses resulting from using this software package.
.PP
USE IT AT YOUR OWN RISK.
.PP
Cheers,
.br
Yunfeng Tian
.br
Beijing, China
.br
.PP
.br
*GAMIT/GLOBK is developed by MIT/SIO/etc.
.br
*NRF-Numerical Recipe in Fortran 77.
.SH MODIFICATIONS
.PP
\fIMOD\fP Tian APR-23-2008
.br
+Add cross-platform support.
.SH INSTALL
\fB1. Get the distribution. \fP
.br
ftk (Fortran ToolKit) is now part of iGPS package.
.br
Obtain the latest release of iGPS from https://sourceforge.net/projects/igps/, e.g. iGPS-20161125.tar.bz2. The whole file is rather large, because it contains a few examples and executables. It is recommened that the iGPS source codes are extracted to the home directory, say, ~/iGPS. Install iGPS to other directory may cause certain problems.
.br
To extract,
.br
  tar jxvf iGPS-xxxx.tar.bz2
.br
In Solaris, you could use,
.br
  gtar jxvf iGPS-xxxx.tar.bz2
.br
Or,
  bzcat iGPS-xxxx.tar.bz2 | tar xvf -
.PP
\fB2.Set the environment varible.\fP
.br
Before using iGPS, add two paths to your PATH environment variable.
.br
For \fIcsh\fP, add a line like below to \fI~/.cshrc\fP:
.br
 set path = (~/iGPS/sh ~/iGPS/ftk/bin/ARCH $path)
.br
 where ARCH is the identification string return by sh_new script.
.br
Then, \fIsource ~/.cshrc\fP.
.br
For \fIsh/bash\fP, edit the \fI~/.shrc\fP or \fI~/.bashrc\fP file:
.br
 export PATH=$PATH:${HOME}/iGPS/sh:${HOME}/iGPS/ftk/bin/ARCH
.br
Then, reload the environment by  \fI". ~/.bashrc"\fP.
.PP
\fB3.Generate GAMIT/GLOBK library file.\fP
.br
GAMIT/GLOBK library file (gglib.a.ARCH) should be placed in the same directory as iGPS, e.g. ~/gglib/. However, the \fIarlib\fP utility place it in the home directory of one user, say, ~/gglib. You should move this directory to the same parent path of iGPS mannually. In iGPS, the relative path (not abosolute pathname) are used when linking various libraries to produce executables.
.PP
After setting the PATH environment variable, simply run the \fIarlib\fP command will create this library file.
.br
Before do it, make sure that the ~/gg link points to the GAMIT/GLOBK path. \fIarlib\fP will search all *.a file, unpack them, repack it into one file, and then create the gglib.a library file.

\fB4.Compile the ftk source code to produce your own executables.\fP
.br
If everything is set up OK, then just goes to ${HOME}/iGPS/ftk/ and type ./install_igpsftk to go. It will create makefiles (calling unimake_igpsftk), produce executables (calling make and your Fortran compiler), install the symbolic links (calling install_igpsftk_links).
.PP
If everythinkg is OK, type a ftk command (e.g. hello) to see how it goes. 
.SH "ACKNOWLEDGEMENT"
.PP
Thanks goes to all those people who provide me many useful knowledge/data at no cost. 
.PP
Thanks my families for their continuous supports.
.PP
This work is jointly supported by NSFC(41104001) and funds from ICD, CEA(J2207820,ZDJ2013-22, etc.). 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
 sh_new, arlib, install_igpsftk, install_igpsftk_links, unimake_igpsftk.

